# DeCo Laymans - Week 1 Homework

## eUTxO
To understand eUTxO, we must first understand UTxO (unspent transaction outputs). UTxO, pioneered by Bitcoin, is a blockchain accounting model that is similar to cash accounting. If Pete wants to pay John $5, but only has a $20 bill, he gives John the $20 and gets $15 back. In UTxO, if Pete sends John 0.1BTC and has 1BTC in his wallet, 1BTC gets sent from his wallet, 0.1BTC goes to John and 0.9BTC goes back to his wallet. The UTxO accounting method differs from the account-based model used by Ethereum in that it provides superior privacy, scalability, interoperability and transaction cost predictability. eUTxO takes all of these advantages and adds on Turing complete smart contracts. In short, it takes the rock-solid UTxO model and adds on the ability to programmatically interact with unspent boxes and in that process, create new unspent boxes. 

## Boxes
Under the hood, this transaction happens with what can be thought of as boxes. A box can hold an unlimited amount of assets and can only be operated once. When Pete sends John the BTC, the box (or boxes) containing the BTC get emptied and closed to never be used again. The funds get sent to the recipient’s boxes and the unspent amount returns to a new box (or boxes) in the sender’s account. In eUTxO systems, the boxes may contain multiple asset types as well as data and a script. This script evaluates logic and returns a boolean value (true or false). At transaction time, if the script returns true, then the transaction is successful and new output boxes are created. If false, nothing happens. Think of these scripts as “guards” which protect the contents of the box until conditions are met for access. 

## Wallets
As opposed to a wallet in Ethereum where all funds are held under one account, a wallet in a UTxO or eUTxO system will consist of multiple boxes that are associated with a private and public key pair. A wallet may hold 20 ERG and what that looks like on the blockchain is 1 or more boxes whose contents add up to 20 ERG. Each of those boxes contains a script which corresponds to the public key of the wallet. If you want to spend funds from this wallet, you need to provide the private key to the scripts guarding these boxes. 
